# Future-Engineers, HA-LEGACY

# Engineering Materials


# Content
- video: contains the .md file with the link to a video where driving demonstration exists
- schemes: contains several JPEG files with pictures of the electromechanical components used in the vehicle and how they connect to each other.
- t-photos:  contains 2 photos of the team (an official one and one funny photo with all team members)
- v-photos: contains 6 photos of the vehicle (from every side, from top and bottom)
- src: contains code of control software for all components which were programmed to participate in the competition
- other: is for other files and explanations which can be used to understand how to prepare the vehicle for the competition. 

# Introduction 
It is very important to delve into the modules that compose our code in order to understand it in its entirety. The first module is called **fix_g**, its purpose is to avoid the sudden change in the VEX IQ brain's gyroscope values (from 0 to 360), the value of the gyroscope is modified by assigning it to a variable called **temp_d ** and modifying said variable depending on which segment (stored in the variable **g**) of the track at that given moment.**fix_direction** uses that "correction" made by the previous module to lightly steer the robot via the directional motor, 10 degrees to the right or to the left; depending on the segment indicated by a comparison between the current gyroscope reading and the segment's value (0, 270, 180, 90) + or - 1 in order to correct any minor deviation that the robot may present. The next one is the **corner** module; it's importance lies in the involvement it has on the robot's ability to make the turn on a corner, it first the type of round (open round, challenge round) by evaluating a variable's value (clean_round) of 't' for true and 'f' for false, akin to a boolean variable but it's stored as a char type. And based on that it maneuvers while taking the traffic signs if it wasn't an open challenge round, the corner count (counted in that module), and if the variable "a_m_color" has a value of 'r'; this is to avoid the traffic sign for the part in which the robot must stop at the section it started in. If the round is determined to be 't', then it will take the corner by indicating the directional and traction motors how much they should each turn; 59 or -59 degrees for the directional and the traction is set to rotate for 0.3 seconds. The **avoid_obstacles** module is in charge of (as implied by the name) avoid the green and red obstacles if it's a challenge round by using the color sensors, the directional, and traction motors. Then, **get_color** is the module that determines the color of the objects by using defined thresholds for each color (red & green) captured by the color sensors on the robot. **monitor_color** evaluates which color is each sensor detecting via the color sensors, this allows the robot to understand where the obstacles are in relation to its position. Last but not least **fw** acts as the module which applies most of the other modules to function; it has many objectives such as moving the robot, evaluating the type of round, avoiding objects if present, and steering properly. It is a module which consists of all the other modules presented before; since it works on the main, it also harbors the defining of many crucial variables for the other modules, such as the temp_d variable.  

The code is transferred to the robot via VEXcode; when the code is ready to be transferred to the robot, one has to click the download button in the program from here, the VEX IQ controller tranfers the information wirelessly to the robot. The program used is available in the vexrobotics.com website, which uses C++ as it's language.
